Case Study Proposal
Ethereum in Blockchain & Cryptocurrency
By: Gabriel Millan

All industries around the world, from supermarkets to healthcare, are being impacted by the advancements in software, digital, and data technology. The financial and banking industry is no exception, as the technology has completely changed the way individuals and businesses interact with one another, from payments and real estate to investments and personal finance. Some of the most discussed FinTech’s (financial technologies) in today’s media outlets, political talks, and regulators are blockchain and cryptocurrency. McKinsey & Company listed blockchain as one of the seven “technologies shaping the future of fintech.” (1). 
This case study will begin with an explanation of blockchain and cryptocurrency with a special focus on one of today’s biggest market players, Ethereum. First, we will learn about blockchain technology and how it is the root of all cryptocurrencies. Second, we will focus on cryptocurrencies and its technological capabilities. Lastly, we will conclude with how Ethereum has become a key player in this industry.  
Blockchain:
Accenture defines blockchain as “a database system that maintains and records data in a way that allows multiple organizations and individuals to confidently share access to the same data in real-time, while mitigating concerns around security, privacy and control.” (2) The best way to understand how this technology work is by the five basic principles described by Harvard Business Review (3):
1. “Distributed Database: Each party on the blockchain has access to the entire database and its complete history. No single party controls the data or the information. Every party can verify the records of its transaction partners directly, without an intermediary.” In this case, the intermediaries have been governments and/or other financial companies.
2. “Peer-to-Peer Transmission: Communication occurs directly between peers instead of through a central node. Each node stores and forwards information to all other nodes.”
3. “Transparency with Pseudonymity: Every transaction and its associated value are visible to anyone with access to the system. Each note, or user, on a blockchain has a unique 30-plus-character alphanumeric address that identifies it. Users can choose to remain anonymous or provide proof of their identity to others. Transactions occur between blockchain addresses.”
4. “Irreversibility of Records: Once a transaction is entered in the database and the accounts are updated, the records cannot be altered, because they’re linked to every transaction record that came before them (hence the term “chain”). Various computational algorithms and approaches are deployed to ensure that the recording on the database is permanent, chronologically ordered, and available to all others on the network.”
5. “Computational Logic: The digital nature of the ledger means that blockchain transactions can be tied to computational logic and in essence programmed so users can set up algorithms and rules that automatically trigger transactions between nodes.”
Cryptocurrency:
Blockchain technology and its capabilities gave birth to what is known as cryptocurrency. As stated in a New York Times article, “The first blockchain was the database on which every Bitcoin transaction was stored.” (4).  In other words, Bitcoin, the cryptocurrency, creates a data block which contains the transaction information between that took place between the parties involved. This data block is encrypted, or secured using cryptography, and shared to all the computers and databases participating in the network, making it extremely difficult for anyone to alter and/or delete the information in the block. This process is known as decentralization, a Deloitte report describes as eliminating “a need for central authorities, such as banks, as well as trusted intermediaries, such as brokerage firms.” (5)
Ethereum Introduction:
Understanding blockchain technology and how it gave the rise to cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin lead us to understand how the technology has been expanded, and this is where Ethereum has managed to thrive beyond being a cryptocurrency. Ethereum has its own cryptocurrency called ether, but as stated in their website, “is a technology for building apps and organizations, holding assets, transacting and communicating without being controlled by a central authority. There is no need to hand over all your personal details to use Ethereum – you keep control of your own data and what is being shared.” (6) This description makes Ethereum more than just a payment network like Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies tend to be, it allows for other technological capabilities.
Ethereum Background, Domain, and Trends:
Ethereum was founded by Vitalik Buterin in 2013, but four other co-founders, Gavin Wood, Charles Hoskinson, Anthony Di Lorio and Joseph Lubin were added as they contributed to the finalized software and platform Ethereum is today. In July 2015, Ethereum officially announced the launch of their development in their website, Ethereum.org. (7) Ethereum’s domain is in Solidity, which is “influenced by C++, Python, and JavaScript.” (8) Ethereum has grown tremendously since its launched. For example, Ethereum’s cryptocurrency, Ether, “has increased in price from $0.311 at its launch to around $4,800 at its highest late last year.” (9) Ethereum, like a lot of the other players in the blockchain market, have an extremely high volatility, this is due in part because it is a new industry and market
Ethereum’s Impact:
Ethereum has impacted a wide variety of markets, with companies such as Amazon, Fidelity, MetLife, Microsoft, Comcast, and Intel (9) making use of either Ethereum’s cryptocurrency or other capabilities such as smart contracts. Ethereum’s smart contract solution is defined as “computer programs living on the Ethereum blockchain.” (10) According to a report from Morgan Stanley, “the most widely used Ethereum apps are either focused on financial applications (DeFi) or storage of art or collectibles (NFTs).” (11) Furthermore, Morgan Stanley’s report states that Ethereum can be applied in many industries, including “social media, gaming, supply chain management, network coordination, art and collectibles, and voting and governance.” (11)
Ethereum’s Competitors:
Since launching in 2015, Ethereum’s competition has grown significantly. According to Gartner, an IT consulting company, there are six companies that “Ethereum users also considered. IBM Blockchain – Hyperledger Fabric, Ripple, Microsoft Azure Blockchain, Tangle – IOTA, Bitcoin, and Blockstream.” (12) All of these competitors have similar products or capabilities as Ethereum; for example, IBM Blockchain has smart contracts, Ripple provides quick and secure transactions by using blockchain, and Microsoft Azure is best for its use of cloud basis for blockchain. Although these competitors are still in their early stages, Ethereum has a first mover advantage and has established name recognition in the market.
Recommendations for Ethereum and its future:
With a base knowledge of Ethereum’s background, impact, and competitors, I will finalize the case study with my personal recommendations on how the technology should continue to be applied, implemented, and upgraded. 
Today, economies and countries around the world are facing a supply chain crisis and the consequences of this crisis have led to shortages of supplies, high inflationary prices, and logistical problems in ports, warehouses, containers ships, railways, and trucks. An article from the New York Times states, “The International Monetary Fund last week cited supply chain woes among other factors as it downgraded its forecast for global economic growth for 2022 to 4.4 percent from 4.9 percent.” The article also states that “many months, and perhaps years, are likely to transpire before the chaos subsides.” (13). This unfortunate chaos in the industry also presents an opportunity for the industry to implement blockchain capabilities to solve the issues the supply chain industry is facing as noted by a research paper from Harvard Business School by Rajiv Lal and Scott Johnson.
Rajiv and Scott stated how a shipping container company could solve their processing and documenting processes with blockchain. “The industry was rife with inefficient paper-based processes. Companies had little visibility into the status of goods as they moved through the supply chain. Communication between firms was complicated and expensive. The administrative costs involved with transporting a shipping container were shockingly high.” The solution? Blockchain, the research paper goes to states that “Blockchain would act as a distributed ledger, giving all the players in global trade access to a single source of truth.” (14). Furthermore, “What blockchain does today is offer a level of security that is significantly higher than paper documentation. Where blockchain changes the game is having permissioned access to ensure the visibility so the people that are involved in a transaction know it is authenticated. It’s verifiable.” (14).
Using the supply chain example, I believe that Ethereum has the capability for the technology to be implemented in many industries where sensitive information is stored, for example in the medical industry. Hospitals are storing their patient’s data and information in computers and data centers owned by third parties like Google and Amazon, making all this information vulnerable for hackers or accidents of loss of data. The Blockchain provides a more secure alternative and gives increased control to individuals and their personal information; in other words, the individual decides who they can share the information with.


Sources: 
(1)	https://www.mckinsey.com/cn/our-insights/our-insights/seven-technologies-shaping-the-future-of-fintech
(2)	https://www.accenture.com/us-en/insights/blockchain-index
(3)	https://hbr.org/2017/01/the-truth-about-blockchain
(4)	https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/27/business/dealbook/blockchains-guide-information.html
(5)	https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/ch/Documents/innovation/ch-en-innovation-deloitte-what-is-blockchain-2016.pdf
(6)	https://ethereum.org/en/what-is-ethereum/
(7)	https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/07/30/ethereum-launches
(8)	https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.17/
(9)	https://time.com/nextadvisor/investing/cryptocurrency/ethereum-price-predictions/
(10)	https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/07/30/ethereum-launches
(11)	 https://www.forbes.com/sites/michaeldelcastillo/2019/04/16/blockchain-50-billion-dollar-babies/?sh=229250b557cc
(12)	 https://ethereum.org/en/smart-contracts/
(13)	 https://advisor.morganstanley.com/daron.edwards/documents/field/d/da/daron-edwards/Cryptocurrency_201__What_is_Ethereum_.pdf
(14)	 https://www.gartner.com/reviews/market/blockchain-platforms/vendor/ethereum-foundation/product/ethereum/alternatives
(15)	 https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/01/business/supply-chain-disruption.html
(16)	  “Maersk: Betting on Blockchain” by Rajiv Lal and Scott Johnson – REV: July 19, 2018 - 9-518-089
(17)	
